---
title: Pedro R. Muro-Medrano
author_id: prmuro
layout: member_page
---

## Professional career

Dr. Pedro R. Muro-Medrano held MS and PhD degrees in industrial engineering from the Universidad Zaragoza (Zaragoza, Spain), previously he studied at the Universidad Laboral de Cheste (Valencia, Spain) and the Universidad Laboral de Logroño (La Rioja, Spain). He worked in the private industry for 2 years and held different visiting research positions at the Intelligent Systems Laboratory of the Robotics Institute at Carnegie Mellon University (Pittsburgh, PA, USA), the Computer Integrated Manufacturing Laboratory at the University of Maryland (College Park, MD, USA) and the US National Institutes of Health (Bethesda, MD, USA). With more than 30 years of experience with R&D activities in software development and engineering, he was full professor of computer science at the Universidad de Zaragoza (Spain), where he has been teaching since 1988. He co-authored 3 books and over 200 national and international articles published in books, journals and conference proceedings. He has participated in over 180 R&D national, european and international projects supported by public and private funding and has been principal investigator in over 70. He has registered the intellectual co-property of over 20 computer programs.

He was selected by the European Commission as expert for the Drafting Team for Monitoring and Reporting in charge of the Implementing Rules of the European Directive INSPIRE (Infrastructure for Spatial Information in Europe). He has collaborated with the Spanish delegation of the Ministry of Environment to the European Commission on the Implementation of the Water Framework Directive. Member of the Technical Standardization Committee AEN/CTN148 "Digital Geographic Information" of AENOR and is part of the Spanish representation in the WG5 European Committee for Standardization CEN/TC287. Has been a member of the Committee on Geomatics and a member of the Special Committee on Spatial Data Infrastructure of the Geographic High Council of Spain.

He was the founder of the Advanced Information Systems Group (IAAA), associated with the Department of Computer Science and Systems Engineering and with the Aragón Institute of Engineering Research (I3A) from the Universidad Zaragoza. The IAAA is a multidisciplinary R&D group officially recognized as a "Consolidated Reseach Group" by the Government of Aragon. He was the promoter of the GeoSpatiumLab company (www.GeoSLab.com), a Spin-Off of the University of Zaragoza, where he served on its Board of Management. 